Add operations and schedule sections (#5809)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _benchmark/reference/workloads/test-procedures.md

:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`operation` | Yes | List | Refers to either the name of an operation, defined in the `operations` element, or includes the entire operation inline.
`name` | No | String | Specifies a unique name for the task when multiple tasks use the same operation.
`tags` | No | String | Unique identifiers that can be used to filter between `tasks.clients`, or the number of clients that should execute a task concurrently. Default is 1.
`clients` | No | Integer | Specifies the number of clients that concurrently run the task. Default is `1`.

### Target options

OpenSearch Benchmark requires one of the following options when running a task:

`target-throughput` | No | Integer | Defines the benchmark mode. When not defined, OpenSearch Benchmark assumes it is a throughput benchmark and runs the task as fast as possible. This is useful for batch operations, where achieving best throughput is preferred over better latency. When defined, the target specifies the number of requests per second over all clients. For example, if you specify `target-throughput: 1000` with eight clients, each client issues 125 (= 1000 / 8) requests per second. 

> `target-interval` | No | Interval | Defines an interval of less 1 divided by the target-throughput (in seconds) less than one operation per second. Define either target-throughput or target-interval but not both (otherwise Rally will raise an error).

Author: ```suggestion
`target-interval` | No | Interval | Defines an interval of 1 divided by the target-throughput (in seconds) when the `target-throughput` is less than one operation per second. Define either `target-throughput` or `target-interval` but not both, otherwise OpenSearch Benchmark raises an error.
```

> `target-interval` | No | Interval | Defines an interval of 1 divided by the target-throughput (in seconds) when the `target-throughput` is less than one operation per second. Define either `target-throughput` or `target-interval` but not both, otherwise OpenSearch Benchmark raises an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`target-interval` | No | Interval | Defines an interval of 1 divided by the target-throughput (in seconds) when the `target-throughput` is less than 1 operation per second. Define either `target-throughput` or `target-interval` but not both, otherwise OpenSearch Benchmark raises an error.
```

> `target-interval` | No | Interval | Defines an interval of 1 divided by the target-throughput (in seconds) when the `target-throughput` is less than one operation per second. Define either `target-throughput` or `target-interval` but not both, otherwise OpenSearch Benchmark raises an error.

Reviewer: Should the first instance of "target-throughput" in the description be in code font?

`ignore-response-error-level` | No | Boolean | Controls whether to ignore errors encountered during the task when a benchmark is run with the `on-error=abort` command flag. 

### Iteration-based options

Iteration-based options determine the number of times an operation should run. It can also define the number of iterative runs when tasks are run in [parallel](#parallel-tasks). To configure an iteration-based schedule, use the following options.

Parameter | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---

> `iterations` | No | Integer | Specifies the number of times a client should execute an operation. These are included in the measured results. Default is `1`. 

Author: Lets make this more specific. "All iterations are included in the measured results."

#### Usage

In the following example, `parallel-task-1` and `parallel-task-2` execute a `bulk` operation concurrently:

```yml
{
  "name": "parallel-any",
  "description": "Workload completed-by property",
  "schedule": [
    {
      "parallel": {
        "tasks": [
          {
            "name": "parellel-task-1",
            "operation": {
              "operation-type": "bulk",
              "bulk-size": 1000
            },
            "clients": 8
          },
          {
            "name": "parellel-task-2",
            "operation": {
              "operation-type": "bulk",
              "bulk-size": 500
            },
            "clients": 8
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Options

The `parallel` element supports all `schedule` parameters, in addition to the following:

`tasks` | Yes | Array | Defines a list of tasks that should be executed concurrently. 

> `completed-by` | No | String | Allows you to define the name of one task in the tasks list or the value `any`. If `completed-by` is set to the name of one task in the list, the `parallel-task` structure is considered complete once that specific task has been completed. If `completed-by` is set to `any`, the `parallel-task` structure is considered complete when any of the tasks in the list has been completed. If `completed-by` is not explicitly defined, the `parallel-task` structure is considered complete as soon as all the tasks in the list have been completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`completed-by` | No | String | Allows you to define the name of one task in the task list or the value `any`. If `completed-by` is set to the name of one task in the list, the `parallel-task` structure is considered to be complete once that specific task has been completed. If `completed-by` is set to `any`, the `parallel-task` structure is considered to be complete when any one of the tasks in the list has been completed. If `completed-by` is not explicitly defined, the `parallel-task` structure is considered to be complete as soon as all of the tasks in the list have been completed.
```

### Time-based options

> Time-based options determines the duration of time, in seconds, that operations should run for. This is ideal for batch-style operations which may require an additional warmup period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Time-based options determine the duration of time, in seconds, for which operations should run. This is ideal for batch-style operations, which may require an additional warmup period.
```

To configure a time-based schedule, use the following options.

Parameter | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---

> `time-period` | No | Integer | Specifies the time period in seconds that OpenSearch Benchmark considers for measurement. This is not required for bulk indexing because OpenSearch Benchmark bulk indexes all documents and naturally measures all samples after the specified `warmup-time-period`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`time-period` | No | Integer | Specifies the time period, in seconds, that OpenSearch Benchmark considers for measurement. This is not required for bulk indexing because OpenSearch Benchmark bulk indexes all documents and naturally measures all samples after the specified `warmup-time-period`.
```

> `ramp-up-time-period` | No | Integer | Specifies the time period in seconds in which OpenSearch Benchmark gradually adds clients and reaches the total number of clients specified for the operation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ramp-up-time-period` | No | Integer | Specifies the time period, in seconds, during which OpenSearch Benchmark gradually adds clients and reaches the total number of clients specified for the operation. 
```

> `warmup-time-period` | No | Integer | Specifies the time period in seconds to warm up the benchmark candidate. All response data captured during the warmup period do not appear in the measurement results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`warmup-time-period` | No | Integer | Specifies the amount of time, in seconds, to warm up the benchmark candidate. Not all response data captured during the warmup period appears in the measurement results.
```

> `warmup-time-period` | No | Integer | Specifies the time period in seconds to warm up the benchmark candidate. All response data captured during the warmup period do not appear in the measurement results.

Reviewer: Confirm that my changes to the second sentence retain the intended meaning.

Author: None of the response data captured during the warmup period appears in the measurement results. 

Should I just use the above the description?

Reviewer: Yes, you can just commit my suggestion 😄

---
layout: default
title: test_procedures
parent: Workload reference
grand_parent: OpenSearch Benchmark Reference
nav_order: 100
---

# test_procedures

> If your workload only defines one benchmarking scenario specify the schedule on top-level. Use the challenge element if you want to specify additional properties like a name or a description. You can think of a challenge as a benchmarking scenario. If you have multiple challenges, you can define an array of challenges.

Reviewer 2: `challenge` -> `test procedure`
`challenges` -> `test procedures`

> If your workload only defines one benchmarking scenario specify the schedule on top-level. Use the challenge element if you want to specify additional properties like a name or a description. You can think of a challenge as a benchmarking scenario. If you have multiple challenges, you can define an array of challenges.

Author: ```suggestion
If your workload only defines one benchmarking scenario specify the schedule on top-level. Use the `test-procedures` element if you want to specify additional properties like a name or a description. You can think of a test procedure as a benchmarking scenario. If you have multiple test procedures, you can define an array of challenges.
```

> This section contains one or more challenges which describe the benchmark scenarios for this data set. A challenge can reference all operations that are defined in the operations section.

Reviewer 2: `challenges` -> `test procedures`
`challenge` -> `test procedure`

> This section contains one or more challenges which describe the benchmark scenarios for this data set. A challenge can reference all operations that are defined in the operations section.

Author: ```suggestion
This section contains one or more test procedures which describe the benchmark scenarios for this data set. A test procedure can reference all operations that are defined in the operations section.
```

Parameter | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`name` | Yes | String | The name of the test procedure. When naming the test procedure, do not use spaces so that the name is easy to enter on the command line.
`description` | No | String |  A human readable description of the test procedure.
`user-info` | No | String | A message that is printed at the beginning of the test intended to notify the user about important information related to the test, such as deprecations.

> `default` | No | Boolean | When set to `true`, OpenSearch Benchmark selects this test procedure by default if the user did not specify another `test-procedure` on the command line. If your workload only defines one challenge, it is implicitly selected as default, otherwise you need to define `"default": true` on exactly one challenge.

Reviewer 2: `challenge` -> `test procedure`

> `default` | No | Boolean | When set to `true`, OpenSearch Benchmark selects this test procedure by default if the user did not specify another `test-procedure` on the command line. If your workload only defines one challenge, it is implicitly selected as default, otherwise you need to define `"default": true` on exactly one challenge.

Author: ```suggestion
`default` | No | Boolean | When set to `true`, OpenSearch Benchmark selects this test procedure by default if the user did not specify another `test-procedure` on the command line. If your workload only defines one test procedure, it is implicitly selected as default, otherwise you need to define `"default": true` on exactly one challenge.
```

> [schedule](#schedule) | Yes | Array |  Defines the workload. 

Reviewer 2: `Defines the workload. ` -> `Defines the order in which tasks are run`

> [schedule](#schedule) | Yes | Array |  Defines the workload. 

Author: ```suggestion
[schedule](#schedule) | Yes | Array |  Defines the order in which tasks in the workload are run.
```

      "clients": 4,
      "warmup-iterations": 1000,
      "iterations": 1000,
      "target-throughput": 100
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Defining operations inline

If you don't want reuse an operation in the schedule, you can also define operations inside the `schedule` element, as shown in the following example:

```yml
{
  "schedule": [
    {
      "operation": {
        "name": "force-merge",
        "operation-type": "force-merge"
      },
      "clients": 1
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "name": "match-all-query",
        "operation-type": "search",
        "body": {
          "query": {
            "match_all": {}
          }
        }
      },
      "clients": 4,
      "warmup-iterations": 1000,
      "iterations": 1000,
      "target-throughput": 100
    }
  ]
}
```

### Task options

Each task contains the following options.

Parameter | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`operation` | Yes | List | Refers to either the name of an operation, defined in the `operations` element, or includes the entire operation inline.
`name` | No | String | Specifies a unique name for the task when multiple tasks use the same operation.

> `tags` | No | String | Unique identifiers that can be used to filter between tasks.clients (optional, defaults to 1): The number of clients that should execute a task concurrently.

Author: ```suggestion
`tags` | No | String | Unique identifiers that can be used to filter between `tasks.clients`, or the number of clients that should execute a task concurrently. Default is 1.
```

`clients` | No | Integer | The number of clients that concurrently run the task. Default is `1`.

### Target options

OpenSearch Benchmark requires one of the following options when running a task.

`target-throughput` | No | Integer | Defines the benchmark mode. When not defined, OpenSearch Benchmark assumes that this is a throughput benchmark and runs the task as fast as possible. This useful batch operations, where it is more important to achieve the best throughput as opposed to better latency. When defined, the target specifies the number of requests per second over all clients. For example, if you specify `target-throughput: 1000` with 8 clients, it means that each client will issue 125 (= 1000 / 8) requests per second. 

> `target-interval` | No | Interval | Defines an internal of less 1 / target-throughput (in seconds) less than one operation per second. Define either target-throughput or target-interval but not both (otherwise Rally will raise an error).

Reviewer 2: `internal` -> `interval`

Reviewer 2: `Rally` --> `OpenSearch Benchmark`

Reviewer 2: `Defines an internal of less 1 / target-throughput (in seconds) less than one operation per second.` -> `Defines an interval of 1 / target-throughput (in seconds). This is useful for cases where throughput desired is less than one operation per second.`

> `target-interval` | No | Interval | Defines an internal of less 1 / target-throughput (in seconds) less than one operation per second. Define either target-throughput or target-interval but not both (otherwise Rally will raise an error).

Author: ```suggestion
`target-interval` | No | Interval | Defines an internval of less 1 / target-throughput (in seconds) less than one operation per second. Define either target-throughput or target-interval but not both (otherwise Rally will raise an error).
```

`ignore-response-error-level` | No | Boolean | Controls whether to ignore errors encountered during the task when a benchmark is run with the `on-error=abort` command flag. 

> ### Parallel tasks

Reviewer 2: Let's move `Parallel tasks` below iteration-based options and time-based options

Reviewer 2: Let's also rename it to `Running Operations in Parallel`

> The `parallel` element runs tasks wrapped inside the element concurrently. 

Reviewer 2: `tasks` -> `operations`

> When running tasks in parallel, each task requires the `client` option to make sure clients inside your benchmark are reserved for that task. Otherwise, when the client option is specified inside the parallel element without a connection to the task, the benchmark will use that number of clients for all tasks.

Reviewer 2: `When running tasks in parallel, each task requires the "client" option to make sure clients inside your benchmark are reserved for that task. Otherwise, when the client option is specified inside the parallel element without a connection to the task, the benchmark will use that number of clients for all tasks.` -> `When running operations in parallel, each operation requires the "client" option to make sure clients inside your benchmark are reserved for that operation. Otherwise, when the client option is specified inside the parallel element without a connection to an operation, the benchmark will use that number of clients for all operations.`

#### Usage

> In the following example, `parallel-task-1` and `parallel-task-2` execute a `bulk` operation concurrently:

Reviewer 2: `parallel-task-1` -> `parallel-operation-1`
`parallel-task-2` -> `parallel-operation-2`

```yml
{
  "name": "parallel-any",

>   "description": "Track completed-by property",

Reviewer 2: `Track` -> `Workload`

>   "description": "Track completed-by property",

Author: ```suggestion
  "description": "Workload completed-by property",
```

  "schedule": [
    {
      "parallel": {
        "tasks": [
          {

>             "name": "parellel-task-1",

Reviewer 2: `parallel-task-1` -> `parallel-operation-1`
`parallel-task-2` -> `parallel-operation-2`

            "operation": {
              "operation-type": "bulk",
              "bulk-size": 1000
            },
            "clients": 8
          },
          {
            "name": "parellel-task-2",
            "operation": {
              "operation-type": "bulk",
              "bulk-size": 500
            },
            "clients": 8
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Options

> The `parallel` element supports all `schedule` parameters, in addition to the following:

Reviewer 2: This section about the `parallel` element should be moved below the iterations options and time-based options below.

> `tasks` | Yes | Array | Defines a list of tasks that should be executed concurrently. 

Reviewer 2: To make it more clear for the users, we can update `a list of tasks` to `a list of operations`

> `completed-by` | No | String | Allows you define the name of one task in the tasks list, or the value `any`. If a specific task name has been provided then as soon as the named task has completed, the whole parallel task structure is considered completed. If the of value `any` is provided, then any task that completes first renders all other tasks specified in parallel structure complete. If this property is not explicitly defined, the parallel task structure is considered completed as soon as the tasks in the element complete.

Reviewer 2: `Allows you` -> `Allows you to`

Reviewer 2: For clarity, we can rephrase this section
```
If a specific task name has been provided then as soon as the named task has completed, the whole parallel task structure is considered completed. If the of value "any" is provided, then any task that completes first renders all other tasks specified in parallel structure complete. If this property is not explicitly defined, the parallel task structure is considered completed as soon as the tasks in the element complete.
```
to 
```
If "completed-by" is set to the name of one of the operations in the list, the parallel task structure is considered complete once that specific operation has been completed. If "completed-by" is set to "any", the parallel task structure is considered complete when any of the operations in the list has been completed. If "completed-by" not explicitly defined, the parallel task structure is considered completed as soon as all of the operations in the list has been completed.
```

> `completed-by` | No | String | Allows you define the name of one task in the tasks list, or the value `any`. If a specific task name has been provided then as soon as the named task has completed, the whole parallel task structure is considered completed. If the of value `any` is provided, then any task that completes first renders all other tasks specified in parallel structure complete. If this property is not explicitly defined, the parallel task structure is considered completed as soon as the tasks in the element complete.

Author: ```suggestion
`completed-by` | No | String | Allows you to define the name of one task in the tasks list, or the value `any`. If "completed-by" is set to the name of one of the tasks in the list, the parallel task structure is considered complete once that specific task has been completed. If "completed-by" is set to "any", the parallel task structure is considered complete when any of the tasks in the list has been completed. If "completed-by" is not explicitly defined, the parallel task structure is considered complete as soon as all of the tasks in the list has been completed.
```

### Iteration-based options

> Iteration-based options determine the number of times an operation should fun. It can also define the number of iterative runs when tasks are run in [parallel](#parallel-tasks). To configure an iteration-based schedule, use the following options.

Reviewer 2: `fun` -> `run`

> Iteration-based options determine the number of times an operation should fun. It can also define the number of iterative runs when tasks are run in [parallel](#parallel-tasks). To configure an iteration-based schedule, use the following options.

Author: ```suggestion
Iteration-based options determine the number of times an operation should run. It can also define the number of iterative runs when tasks are run in [parallel](#parallel-tasks). To configure an iteration-based schedule, use the following options.
```

Parameter | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---

> `iterations` | No | Integer | Defines a default value for all tasks of the parallel element. Default is `1`.

Reviewer 2: The number of times an operation is executed by a client. These are included in the measured results. Default is `1`.

> `iterations` | No | Integer | Defines a default value for all tasks of the parallel element. Default is `1`.

Author: ```suggestion
`iterations` | No | Integer | The number of times a client should execute an operation. These are included in the measured results. Default is 1. 
```

> `warmup-iterations` | No | Integer | Number of iterations that each client should execute to warmup the benchmark candidate. Warmup iterations will not show up in the measurement results. Default is `0`.

Reviewer 2: `Number of iterations that each client should execute to warmup the benchmark candidate. Warmup iterations will not show up in the measurement results. Default is `0`.` -> `Number of times a client should execute an operation to warmup the benchmark candidate. Warmup iterations will not show up in the measurement results. Default is `0`.`

> `warmup-iterations` | No | Integer | Number of iterations that each client should execute to warmup the benchmark candidate. Warmup iterations will not show up in the measurement results. Default is `0`.

Author: ```suggestion
`warmup-iterations` | No | Integer | The number of times a client should execute an operation for the purpose of warming up the benchmark candidate. Warmup iterations will not show up in the measurement results. Default is 0.
```

> `completed-by` | No | String | Allows you to define the name of one task in the tasks list, or the value `any`. If `completed-by` is set to the name of one of the tasks in the list, the parallel task structure is considered complete once that specific task has been completed. If `completed-by` is set to `any`, the parallel task structure is considered complete when any of the tasks in the list has been completed. If `completed-by` is not explicitly defined, the parallel task structure is considered complete as soon as all of the tasks in the list has been completed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`completed-by` | No | String | Allows you to define the name of one task in the tasks list or the value `any`. If `completed-by` is set to the name of one task in the list, the `parallel-task` structure is considered complete once that specific task has been completed. If `completed-by` is set to `any`, the `parallel-task` structure is considered complete when any of the tasks in the list has been completed. If `completed-by` is not explicitly defined, the `parallel-task` structure is considered complete as soon as all the tasks in the list have been completed.
```

### Time-based options

> Time-based options determines the duration of time, in seconds, that operations should run for. This is ideal with batch-style operations which may require an additional warmup period, including batch style operations. 

Reviewer 2: `This is ideal with batch-style operations which may require an additional warmup period, including batch style operations. ` -> Do you mean something like`This is ideal for operations that may require an additional warmup period, such as batch style operations. `?

> Time-based options determines the duration of time, in seconds, that operations should run for. This is ideal with batch-style operations which may require an additional warmup period, including batch style operations. 

Author: ```suggestion
Time-based options determines the duration of time, in seconds, that operations should run for. This is ideal for batch-style operations which may require an additional warmup period.
```

To configure a time-based schedule, use the following options.

Parameter | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---

> `time-period` | No | Duration | The time period in seconds that OpenSearch Benchmark considers for measurement. Usually not required for bulk indexing, since OpenSearch Benchmark will index all documents at according to the `warmup-time-period`.

Reviewer 2: A couple notes:
- Type: I think type should also be `Integer` and not duration.
- Description: We should rephrase the second and third sentence to `This is not required for bulk-indexing as OpenSearch Benchmark will bulk index all documents and will naturally measure all samples after the "warmup-time-period" specified`

> `time-period` | No | Duration | The time period in seconds that OpenSearch Benchmark considers for measurement. Usually not required for bulk indexing, since OpenSearch Benchmark will index all documents at according to the `warmup-time-period`.

Author: ```suggestion
`time-period` | No | Integer | The time period in seconds that OpenSearch Benchmark considers for measurement. This is not required for bulk-indexing as OpenSearch Benchmark will bulk index all documents and naturally measure all samples after the "warmup-time-period" specified.
```

> `time-period` | No | Integer | The time period in seconds that OpenSearch Benchmark considers for measurement. This is not required for bulk-indexing as OpenSearch Benchmark will bulk index all documents and naturally measure all samples after the `warmup-time-period` specified.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`time-period` | No | Integer | Specifies the time period in seconds that OpenSearch Benchmark considers for measurement. This is not required for bulk indexing because OpenSearch Benchmark bulk indexes all documents and naturally measures all samples after the specified `warmup-time-period`.
```

> `ramp-up-time-period` | No | Integer | The time period in seconds in which OpenSearch Benchmark gradually adds clients and reaches the total number of clients specified for the operation. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`ramp-up-time-period` | No | Integer | Specifies the time period in seconds in which OpenSearch Benchmark gradually adds clients and reaches the total number of clients specified for the operation. 
```

> `ramp-up-time-period` | No | Integer | Determines the number of clients used at the end of the specified time period in seconds, which can help increase load gradually. This prevents load spikes from occurring before the benchmark is warmed up. This property requires a `warmup-time-period` to be set as well, which must be less then the ramp up time period. Default is `0`.

Reviewer 2: We should rephrase the following:
```
Determines the number of clients used at the end of the specified time period in seconds, which can help increase load gradually. 
```
to 
```
The time period in seconds in which OpenSearch Benchmark will gradually add clients and reach the total number of clients specified for the operation. 
```

> `ramp-up-time-period` | No | Integer | Determines the number of clients used at the end of the specified time period in seconds, which can help increase load gradually. This prevents load spikes from occurring before the benchmark is warmed up. This property requires a `warmup-time-period` to be set as well, which must be less then the ramp up time period. Default is `0`.

Author: ```suggestion
`ramp-up-time-period` | No | Integer | The time period in seconds in which OpenSearch Benchmark gradually adds clients and reaches the total number of clients specified for the operation. 
```

> `warmup-time-period` | No | Integer | The time period in seconds to warmup the benchmark candidate. All response data captured during the warmup period will not appear in the measurement results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`warmup-time-period` | No | Integer | Specifies the time period in seconds to warm up the benchmark candidate. All response data captured during the warmup period do not appear in the measurement results.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> `warmup-time-period` | No | Integer | The time period in seconds to warmup of the benchmark candidate. All response data captured during the warmup period will not appear in the measurement results.

Reviewer 2: `The time period in seconds to warmup of the benchmark candidate.` -> `The time period in seconds to warmup the benchmark candidate.`

> `warmup-time-period` | No | Integer | The time period in seconds to warmup of the benchmark candidate. All response data captured during the warmup period will not appear in the measurement results.

Author: ```suggestion
`warmup-time-period` | No | Integer | The time period in seconds to warmup the benchmark candidate. All response data captured during the warmup period will not appear in the measurement results.
```
